So this course is called AI for 3D medical imaging.
Let's level set by discussing who is an AI engineer,
and what is AI for 3D medical imaging,
and what is AI?
The first definition of AI is considered to be this one,
which was coined in 1956 where a group of very smart people
who are thought to be the fathers of the modern information theory got together and
thought about what should we do and how should we think about
this emerging capability of teaching computers to make decisions.
The definition that they came up with was as follows,
"An attempt will be made to find how to make machines use language,
form abstractions and concepts,
solve kinds of problems now reserved for humans, and improve themselves.
For the present purpose,
the artificial intelligence problem is taken to be that of making a machine
behave in a way that would be called intelligent if a human was so behaving."
So this understanding of definition of AI has evolved through the years.
We have seen the explosion of
various machine learning techniques in the past several years.
I think when we think about AI in this course,
this is the definition that we could adopt.
AI is an application of machine learning techniques to a real-world problem,
improving human productivity and capability.
The reason why we decide to take this definition is that,
originally AI is all about making machines behave so that they are very human-like.
So it is not only about developing better algorithms,
it is not only about writing better code,
it is about building systems which integrate end to end,
and can make humans better.
A few important things to note here is that machine learning,
we think of it as a smaller field than AI.
Machine learning is about building algorithms that do not need to be coded explicitly,
but can improve themselves from the data that's being supplied to them.
Which brings us to the question of,
who is an AI engineer?
So who are we building this course for?
I would like to draw a parallel to a concept of full-stack web developer.
If you have been in the software engineering world the past 10 years,
all the craze in web development has been about being the full-stack web developer.
Unlike the olden days where you had people who would focus on back end,
and you'd have people who would focus on business logic,
and you'd have people who would focus on front-end.
The concept of full-stack web developer emerged not so long ago,
and the idea was that we need to people who actually understand systems end to end,
who know how to build front-end,
who knows how to build back-end,
and who can bring these things together.
I'd like to make a case that AI engineer is very similar
to this concept of full-stack web developer.
AI engineer needs to know the data tier,
needs to understand data,
need to understand what it takes to curate
good datasets and label good datasets for particular machine learning problems.
AI engineer needs to understand this business logic tier,
which is all about applying machine learning algorithms to
a particular clinical problem and applying them in a way that's actually meaningful,
that yields results which make clinicians better.
AI engineer needs to know the front end,
which is deployment of those AI algorithms.
Where will they work? What will be the environment?
What will be the performance characteristics?
Because this is important to understanding what trade-offs
they need to make when developing your algorithms.
So all in all,
an AI engineer needs to be able to see systems end to
end to bring the best results to the end users.